docs(tutorials): docusaurus (#1164)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploying-a-documentation-website-with-docusaurus-on-scaleway/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Deploying a documentation website with Docusaurus on Scaleway
  description: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy a documentation website to Object Storage with Docusaurus and GitHub runners.
content:
  h1: Deploying a documentation website with Docusaurus on Scaleway
  paragraph: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy a documentation website to Object Storage with Docusaurus and GitHub runners.
tags: docusaurus cms website github object-storage
categories: 
  - storage
  - object-storage
dates:
  validation: 2023-01-04
  posted: 2023-01-04
---

> Docusaurus is an open-source documentation framework. Docusaurus allows you to build, deploy, and maintain documentation websites. It comes with features such as blogs, internationalization, search and versioning. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docusaurus is an open-source documentation framework. It allows you to build, deploy, and maintain documentation websites. It comes with features such as blogs, internationalization, search and versioning. 
```

It builds a single-page application with fast client-side navigation, leveraging the full power of React to make your site interactive. The tool is a static-site generator and provides out-of-the-box documentation features - but can be used to create any kind of static website (personal website, product, blog, marketing landing pages, etc).

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />
 
<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

>   - You have an Object Storage bucket with [bucket website feature](/storage/object/how-to/use-bucket-website) enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have an Object Storage bucket with the [bucket website feature](/storage/object/how-to/use-bucket-website) enabled
```

  - You have a [GitHub](https://github.com/) account and [created](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo) an empty repository for your project
  - You have a local development environment with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 16.14 or above) and `git` installed

> 

Reviewer: espace en trop

</Message>

## Generating a new site

> Hugo is available for most operating systems. In this tutorial we describe the installation on an Ubuntu Linux system. For other operating systems, refer to the [official documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).

Reviewer: add small explanation about what Hugo is

Reviewer: or should this be docusaurus instead?

> Hugo is available for most operating systems. In this tutorial we describe the installation on an Ubuntu Linux system. For other operating systems, refer to the [official documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).

Author: ```suggestion
Docusaurus is available for most operating systems. In this tutorial we describe the installation on an Ubuntu Linux system. For other operating systems, refer to the [official documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).
```

1. Open a terminal on your computer. 
2. Type the following command in the terminal to generate a new Docusaurus site: 
    ```
    npx create-docusaurus@latest
    ```
    You will be prompted to install the latest `create-docusaurus` package (here 2.2.0). Type `y` to proceed.
    ```
    Need to install the following packages:
      create-docusaurus@2.2.0
    Ok to proceed? (y) y
    ```
    Once installed you will be promted to provide some details about your new documentation website
    * A name for your new site (for example: `docusaurus-on-scaleway`)
    * A template for your webssite (for example: `classic (recommended)`)
    * Confirm that you want to use the TypeScript version of the template by typing `y`.
    ```
    ✔ What should we name this site? … docusaurus-on-scaleway
    ✔ Select a template below... › classic (recommended)
    ✔ This template is available in TypeScript. Do you want to use the TS variant? … yes
    ```
    Docusaurus will create the new site and all related files.
3. Enter the directory of your new site:
    ```
    cd docusaurus-on-scaleway
    ```

>     You can see that Docusaurus created several files and directiories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can see that Docusaurus created several files and directories:
```

    ```
    $ ls
    README.md            docusaurus.config.js sidebars.js
    babel.config.js      node_modules         src
    blog                 package-lock.json    static
    docs                 package.json         tsconfig.json
    ```

> 4. Deploy a preview of your site using the development webserver by running the command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Deploy a preview of your site using the development webserver by running the following command
```

> 4. Deploy a preview of your site using the development webserver by running the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Deploy a preview of your site using the development webserver by running the following command:
```

    ```
    npm start
    ```

>     Your browser opens automatically a new tab, pointing to `http://localhost:3000`, and displaying the Docusaurus site. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your browser opens a new tab automatically, pointing to `http://localhost:3000`, and displaying the Docusaurus site. 
```

>     <Message type="note">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Message type="tip">
```

>       Press `ctrl+c` to quit the development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You can press `ctrl+c` to quit the development server.
```

    </Message>

> 5. Initalize a new git repository inside the Docusaurus website folder on your local computer by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Run the following command to initialize a new git repository inside the Docusaurus website folder on your local computer:
```

    ```
    git init
    ```

> 6. Confiugure a remote upstream of your repository, pointing to your GitHub repository: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Configure a remote upstream of your repository, pointing to your GitHub repository: 
```

    ```
    git remote add origin git@github.com:<YOUR_GITHUB_USER>/<YOUR_GITHUB_REPOSITORY_NAME>.git
    ```
    <Message type="tip">
      If you have no GitHub repository yet, create a new one from the [web interface](https://github.com/new) or via the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) by running the following command:
      ```
      gh repo create <YOUR_GITHUB_REPOSITORY_NAME> --private
      ```
    </Message>
7. Add the Docusaurus files to your repository, commit and push the changes:
    ```
    git add .
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push -u origin main
    ```
### Deploying to Scaleway Object Storage

<Message type="important">

>   You must configure an Object Storage bucket with [bucket website feature](/storage/object/how-to/use-bucket-website) enabled before you continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You must configure an Object Storage bucket with the [bucket website feature](/storage/object/how-to/use-bucket-website) enabled before you continue.
```

</Message>

1. Open a web browser and go to your project's repository on [GitHub.com](http://github.com).
2. Click the **Settings** tab to display the settings of your repository. 

> 3. Click **Secrets** > **Actions** in the side menu. The list of Actions secrets displays. GitHub Secrets are encrypted data of sensitive information. They are used here to store the Scaleway secret key and access key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Secrets** > **Actions** in the side menu. A list of the Actions' secrets displays. GitHub Secrets are encrypted data of sensitive information. They are used here to store the Scaleway secret key and access key.
```

4. Click **New repository secret** to create a new secret. Name it `SCW_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and enter your access key as secret value. 
5. Click **Add secret** to save your configuration.
6. Repeat the step above with a secret named `SCW_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and your secret key as secret value.
7. Repeat the step above again and set a secret named `SCW_S3_BUCKET` and your bucket name as secret value.

> 8. Click the **Actions** tab. A list of suggested GitHub Actions for your project displays. Click **Skip this and setup a workflow yourself**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Click the **Actions** tab. A list of suggested GitHub Actions for your project displays. 
9. Click **Skip this and setup a workflow yourself**.
```

> 9. Copy the following code in the text editor, keep the default file name `main.yml` and click **Start commit**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Copy the following code in the text editor, keep the default file name `main.yml` and click **Start commit**:
```

    ```
    name: Deploy Docusaurus to S3
    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - main

    jobs:
      deploy:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
          - uses: actions/checkout@v3
          - uses: bene2k1/s3-docusaurus-sync-action@main
            env:
              SCW_BUCKET_REGION: "fr-par"
              # Set this to the region corresponding to the geographical location of your bucket
              SCW_S3_BUCKET: ${{ secrets.SCW_S3_BUCKET }}
              SCW_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.SCW_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
              SCW_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.SCW_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
    ```
    <Message type="note">
      The GitHub Action used to deploy the Docusaurus site on Scaleway Object Storage is forked from [turnerlabs/s3-docusaurus-sync-action](https://github.com/turnerlabs/s3-docusaurus-sync-action).
    </Message>

> 10. Enter a commit message, select **Commit directly to the `main` branch** and click **Commit new file**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Enter a commit message, select **Commit directly to the `main` branch** and click **Commit new file**. 
```

The runner runs automatically for the first time and builds and deploys your documentation website to the Object Storage bucket.

### Adding more pages

You can add several types of content to your Docusaurus site:
* [Pages](https://docusaurus.io/docs/creating-pages)
* [Docs](https://docusaurus.io/docs/docs-introduction)
* [Blogs](https://docusaurus.io/docs/blog)

> Refer to the official documentation for more information about the different types of content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [official documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/) for more information about the different types of content.
```

> Once you have created your content, add it to the Git repository, commit and push it to your GitHub repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created your content, add it to your working tree, then commit and push it to your GitHub repository:
```

    ```
    git add .
    git commit -m "More content commit"
    git push -u origin main
    ```

The GitHub runner will run Docusaurus and build your website. It will then deploy it on your Scaleway Object Storage. 

## Conclusion

> Docusaurus is now setup to rebuild your site every time you push new content to the `main` branch of your GitHub repository. Docusaurus then deploys it automatically on your Object Storage website.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docusaurus is now set up to rebuild your site every time you push new content to the `main` branch of your GitHub repository. Docusaurus then deploys it automatically on your Object Storage website.  
```

> All changes go live on your website as soon as the GitHub runner has completed it tasks and the build of your website was successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All changes go live on your website as soon as the GitHub runner has completed its tasks and the build of your website was done successfully.
```

For more information about Docusaurus, refer to the [official documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs).  

> An alternative solution to Docusaurus is [Hugo](/tutorials/deploy-static-website-with-hugo-and-github-runners-to-object-storage/), providing similar features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An alternative solution to Docusaurus is [Hugo](/tutorials/deploy-static-website-with-hugo-and-github-runners-to-object-storage/), which provides similar features.
```

dates:
  validation: 2023-01-04
  posted: 2023-01-04
---

Docusaurus is an open-source documentation framework. It allows you to build, deploy, and maintain documentation websites. It comes with features such as blogs, internationalization, search and versioning. 

It builds a single-page application with fast client-side navigation, leveraging the full power of React to make your site interactive. The tool is a static-site generator and provides out-of-the-box documentation features - but can be used to create any kind of static website (personal website, product, blog, marketing landing pages, etc).

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />
 
<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have an Object Storage bucket with the [bucket website feature](/storage/object/how-to/use-bucket-website) enabled
  - You have a [GitHub](https://github.com/) account and [created](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo) an empty repository for your project
  - You have a local development environment with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (version 16.14 or above) and `git` installed

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
